README.md, before:

Agent Gateway SDK
========================
A multi-protocol gateway factory with variable transports and observability for agent-to-agent communication.

### Architecture

[![architecture](assets/architecture.png )]()

## Installation

This project uses [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) for package management:
```bash
# Install UV if you don't have it already
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Create a new virtual environment and install the dependencies:
```bash
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

## Getting Started

Create an A2A server bridge with a custom network transport:
```python
from a2a.server import A2AServer
from gateway_sdk.factory import GatewayFactory

...
server = A2AServer(agent_card=agent_card, request_handler=request_handler)

factory = GatewayFactory()
transport = factory.create_transport("NATS", "localhost:4222", options={})
bridge = factory.create_bridge(server, transport=transport)

await bridge.start()
```

Create an A2A client with a custom network transport:
```python
from gateway_sdk.factory import GatewayFactory
from gateway_sdk.factory import ProtocolTypes

factory = GatewayFactory()

transport = factory.create_transport("NATS", "localhost:4222", options={})
    
# connect via agent URL
client_over_nats = await factory.create_client("A2A", agent_url="http://localhost:9999", transport=transport)

# or connect via agent topic
client_over_nats = await factory.create_client(ProtocolTypes.A2A.value, agent_topic="Hello_World_Agent_1.0.0", transport=transport)
```

## Testing

**✅ Test the gateway factory with default A2A client/server**

Run a sample agent via an A2A server:
```bash
uv run python tests/helloworld/__main__.py 
```

In a second terminal, run an A2A test client:
```bash
uv run pytest tests/test_a2a.py::test_a2a_factory_client -s
```

**🚀 Test the gateway factory with A2A over NATS transport**

Run a NATS server:
```bash
cd tests/test-infra && docker-compose up
```

Run an A2A server with a NATS bridge:
```bash
uv run python tests/helloworld/__bridge__.py
```

In a second terminal, run an A2A test client with a NATS transport:
```bash
uv run pytest tests/test_a2a.py::test_a2a_factory_client_with_transport -s
```

## Roadmap
- [x] Add support for transport decoupling and usage
- [ ] Add additional protocols
- [ ] Add observability
- [ ] Add authentication and transport security
- [ ] Add AGP control plane integration
- [ ] Add traffic routing via AGP control plane

Commit message:

feat: adding nats retry logic and error handling
feat: moving nats server and observability stack services to new folder and adding cli for services

docs: adding jaeger trace image to README

README.md, after:

Agent Gateway SDK
========================
A factory package to facilitate agent communcation with different protocols and transports, decoupling the agent protocol from the transport layer. The package aims to provider interoperability between different agent protocols and messaging layers while providing automatic end-to-end observability.

**Supported agent protocols:**
- A2A ✅

**Supported messaging transports:**
- NATS ✅
- MQTT - coming soon
- AGP - coming soon

### Architecture

[![architecture](assets/architecture.png )]()

## Installation

This project uses [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) for package management:
```bash
# Install UV if you don't have it already
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Create a new virtual environment and install the dependencies:
```bash
uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

## Getting Started

Create an A2A server bridge with your network transport of choice:
```python
from a2a.server import A2AServer
from gateway_sdk.factory import GatewayFactory

...
server = A2AServer(agent_card=agent_card, request_handler=request_handler)

factory = GatewayFactory()
transport = factory.create_transport("NATS", "localhost:4222", options={})
bridge = factory.create_bridge(server, transport=transport)

await bridge.start()
```

Create an A2A client with a transport of your choice:
```python
from gateway_sdk.factory import GatewayFactory
from gateway_sdk.factory import ProtocolTypes

factory = GatewayFactory()

transport = factory.create_transport("NATS", "localhost:4222", options={})
    
# connect via agent URL
client_over_nats = await factory.create_client("A2A", agent_url="http://localhost:9999", transport=transport)

# or connect via agent topic
client_over_nats = await factory.create_client(ProtocolTypes.A2A.value, agent_topic="Hello_World_Agent_1.0.0", transport=transport)
```

View agent traces from jaeger:
[![architecture](assets/trace.png )]()

## Testing

**✅ Test the gateway factory with default A2A client/server**

Run a sample agent via an A2A server:
```bash
uv run python tests/helloworld/__main__.py 
```

In a second terminal, run an A2A test client:
```bash
uv run pytest tests/test_a2a.py::test_a2a_factory_client -s
```

**🚀 Test the gateway factory with A2A over NATS transport**

Run a Nats server and observability stack:
```bash
uv run python gateway_cli/cli.py up
```

Run an A2A server with a NATS bridge:
```bash
uv run python tests/helloworld/__bridge__.py
```

In a second terminal, run an A2A test client with a NATS transport:
```bash
uv run pytest tests/test_a2a.py::test_a2a_factory_client_with_transport -s
```

## Roadmap
- [x] Add support for transport decoupling and usage
- [ ] Add additional protocols
- [ ] Add observability
- [ ] Add authentication and transport security
- [ ] Add AGP control plane integration
- [ ] Add traffic routing via AGP control plane
