docs/A2A_USAGE_GUIDE.md, before:

# A2A Usage Guide

In this guide, we will walk through some of the key features of the Agntcy Application SDK and explore an end-to-end example of creating two A2A agents that communicate over a custom transport.

The following diagram illustrates how the A2A protocol maps to a transport implementation:

<p align="center">
  <img src="architecture.png" alt="architecture" width="80%">
</p>

The following table summarizes the current A2A and transport support in the Agntcy Application SDK:

| Protocol \ Transport | SLIM | NATS | MQTT |
| -------------------- | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| **A2A**              |  ✅  |  ✅  |  🕐  |

### ⚡️ Connecting two Agents over an an abstract transport (SLIM | NATS)

A benefit of decoupling protocols from transports is that you can easily create agents that communicate over non http, point-to-point transports such as NATS or Agntcy's SLIM. Below is an example of how to create two A2A agents that communicate over SLIM's gateway.

We will use `uv` for package management and virtual environments. If you don't have it installed, you can install it via:

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Create a new project directory:

```bash
uv init agntcy-a2a
cd agntcy-a2a
```

Install the Agntcy Application SDK and Langgraph:

```bash
uv add agntcy-app-sdk
```

Next we will create a simple weather agent that responds to weather queries. Create a file named `weather_agent.py` and implement the A2A agent and add a message bridge to a SLIM transport:

```python
from a2a.server.agent_execution import AgentExecutor, RequestContext
from a2a.server.events import EventQueue
from a2a.utils import new_agent_text_message
from a2a.types import (
    AgentCapabilities,
    AgentCard,
    AgentSkill,
)
from a2a.server.apps import A2AStarletteApplication
from a2a.server.request_handlers import DefaultRequestHandler
from a2a.server.tasks import InMemoryTaskStore
from agntcy_app_sdk.factory import AgntcyFactory

"""
Create the AgentSkill and AgentCard for a simple weather report agent.
"""

skill = AgentSkill(
    id="weather_report",
    name="Returns weather report",
    description="Provides a simple weather report",
    tags=["weather", "report"],
    examples=["What's the weather like?", "Give me a weather report"],
)

agent_card = AgentCard(
    name="Weather Agent",
    description="An agent that provides weather reports",
    url="",
    version="1.0.0",
    defaultInputModes=["text"],
    defaultOutputModes=["text"],
    capabilities=AgentCapabilities(streaming=True),
    skills=[skill],
    supportsAuthenticatedExtendedCard=False,
)

"""
Create the actual agent logic and executor.
"""

class WeatherAgent:
    """A simple agent that returns a weather report."""
    async def invoke(self) -> str:
        return "The weather is sunny with a high of 75°F."

class WeatherAgentExecutor(AgentExecutor):
    """Test AgentProxy Implementation."""

    def __init__(self):
        self.agent = WeatherAgent()

    async def execute(
        self,
        context: RequestContext,
        event_queue: EventQueue,
    ) -> None:
        result = await self.agent.invoke()
        event_queue.enqueue_event(new_agent_text_message(result))

    async def cancel(self, context: RequestContext, event_queue: EventQueue) -> None:
        raise Exception("cancel not supported")

"""
Create the A2A server and transport bridge to server the Weather Agent.
"""

async def main():
    # create an app-sdk factory to create the transport and bridge
    factory = AgntcyFactory()

    request_handler = DefaultRequestHandler(
        agent_executor=WeatherAgentExecutor(),
        task_store=InMemoryTaskStore(),
    )

    server = A2AStarletteApplication(
        agent_card=agent_card, http_handler=request_handler
    )

    transport = factory.create_transport("SLIM", endpoint="http://localhost:46357")
    bridge = factory.create_bridge(server, transport=transport)
    await bridge.start(blocking=True)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    import asyncio
    asyncio.run(main())
```

Next we will create a simple client agent that queries the weather agent. Create a file named `weather_client.py` and implement the A2A client with a SLIM transport:

```python
from a2a.types import (
    SendMessageRequest,
    MessageSendParams,
    Message,
    Part,
    TextPart,
    Role,
)

from agntcy_app_sdk.factory import AgntcyFactory
from agntcy_app_sdk.factory import ProtocolTypes
from agntcy_app_sdk.protocols.a2a.protocol import A2AProtocol
from weather_agent import agent_card

factory = AgntcyFactory()
transport = factory.create_transport("SLIM", endpoint="http://localhost:46357")

async def main():
    # create an app-sdk factory to create the transport and bridge
    factory = AgntcyFactory()

    a2a_topic = A2AProtocol.create_agent_topic(agent_card)

    # create a client to connect to the A2A server
    client = await factory.create_client(ProtocolTypes.A2A.value, agent_topic=a2a_topic, transport=transport)

    message = "Hello, Weather Agent, how is the weather?"
    request = SendMessageRequest(
        params=MessageSendParams(
            message=Message(
                messageId="0",
                role=Role.user,
                parts=[Part(TextPart(text=message))],
            ),
        )
    )

    # send a message to the agent
    response = await client.send_message(request)
    print(response)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    import asyncio
    asyncio.run(main())
```

A few notes about the code above:

- The weather agent is choosing not to provide a URL in its agent card, instead it will be discovered by a SLIM transport topic.
- Conversely, the client agent uses the `A2AProtocol.create_agent_topic` method to create a topic based on the agent` card, which is used to connect to the weather agent.

### 🏁 Running the Example

First lets run the SLIM transport server, see the agntcy-app-sdk [docker-compose.yaml](https://github.com/agntcy/app-sdk/blob/main/infra/docker/docker-compose.yaml) or SLIM [repo](https://github.com/agntcy/slim/tree/main).

Now we can run the weather agent server:

```bash
uv run python weather_agent.py
```

You should see a log message indicating that the message bridge is running:

```
...
2025-07-08 13:32:40 [agntcy_app_sdk.bridge] [INFO] [loop_forever:57] Message bridge is running. Waiting for messages...
```

Next, we can run the weather client:

```bash
uv run python weather_client.py
```

You should see a print output with the weather report:

```
root=SendMessageSuccessResponse(id='1c24a07e-45af-4800-81bc-cc2fd1b579e1', jsonrpc='2.0', result=Message(contextId=None, kind='message', messageId='e68913c7-312d-4bfe-88f6-4b4179d4b5bd', metadata=None, parts=[Part(root=TextPart(kind='text', metadata=None, text='The weather is sunny with a high of 75°F.'))], referenceTaskIds=None, role=<Role.agent: 'agent'>, taskId=None))
```

🚀 Congratulations! You have successfully created two A2A agents that communicate over a SLIM transport.

For a fully functional multi-agent example integrating A2A, Agntcy, and Langgraph, check out our [coffeeAgntcy](https://github.com/agntcy/coffeeAgntcy).

### ⚙️ Contributing additional Transports

To contribute a new transport implementation, follow these steps:

1. **Implement the Transport Interface**: Create a new class for your transport in the `src/agntcy_app_sdk/transports` directory. Ensure it inherits from the `BaseTransport` interface and implements all required methods.

2. **Update the Factory**: Modify the `AgntcyFactory` to include your new transport in the `create_transport` method.

3. **Add Tests**: Create unit tests for your transport in the `tests/e2e` directory. Ensure all tests pass.

4. **Documentation**: Update the documentation to include your new transport. This includes any relevant sections in the README and API reference.

5. **Submit a Pull Request**: Once your changes are complete, submit a pull request for review.

See [API Reference](API_REFERENCE.md) for detailed SDK API documentation.

Commit message:

feat: TBAC Integration for A2A (SLIM and NATS) (#92)
* feat: Integrate TBAC into A2A

---------

Signed-off-by: samuyang <samuyang@cisco.com>

docs/A2A_USAGE_GUIDE.md, after:

# A2A Usage Guide

In this guide, we will walk through some of the key features of the Agntcy Application SDK and explore an end-to-end example of creating two A2A agents that communicate over a custom transport.

The following diagram illustrates how the A2A protocol maps to a transport implementation:

<p align="center">
  <img src="architecture.png" alt="architecture" width="80%">
</p>

The following table summarizes the current A2A and transport support in the Agntcy Application SDK:

| Protocol \ Transport | SLIM | NATS | MQTT |
| -------------------- | :--: | :--: | :--: |
| **A2A**              |  ✅  |  ✅  |  🕐  |

### ⚡️ Connecting two Agents over an an abstract transport (SLIM | NATS)

A benefit of decoupling protocols from transports is that you can easily create agents that communicate over non http, point-to-point transports such as NATS or Agntcy's SLIM. Below is an example of how to create two A2A agents that communicate over SLIM's gateway.

We will use `uv` for package management and virtual environments. If you don't have it installed, you can install it via:

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

Create a new project directory:

```bash
uv init agntcy-a2a
cd agntcy-a2a
```

Install the Agntcy Application SDK and Langgraph:

```bash
uv add agntcy-app-sdk
```

Next we will create a simple weather agent that responds to weather queries. Create a file named `weather_agent.py` and implement the A2A agent and add a message bridge to a SLIM transport:

```python
from a2a.server.agent_execution import AgentExecutor, RequestContext
from a2a.server.events import EventQueue
from a2a.utils import new_agent_text_message
from a2a.types import (
    AgentCapabilities,
    AgentCard,
    AgentSkill,
)
from a2a.server.apps import A2AStarletteApplication
from a2a.server.request_handlers import DefaultRequestHandler
from a2a.server.tasks import InMemoryTaskStore
from agntcy_app_sdk.factory import AgntcyFactory

"""
Create the AgentSkill and AgentCard for a simple weather report agent.
"""

skill = AgentSkill(
    id="weather_report",
    name="Returns weather report",
    description="Provides a simple weather report",
    tags=["weather", "report"],
    examples=["What's the weather like?", "Give me a weather report"],
)

agent_card = AgentCard(
    name="Weather Agent",
    description="An agent that provides weather reports",
    url="",
    version="1.0.0",
    defaultInputModes=["text"],
    defaultOutputModes=["text"],
    capabilities=AgentCapabilities(streaming=True),
    skills=[skill],
    supportsAuthenticatedExtendedCard=False,
)

"""
Create the actual agent logic and executor.
"""

class WeatherAgent:
    """A simple agent that returns a weather report."""
    async def invoke(self) -> str:
        return "The weather is sunny with a high of 75°F."

class WeatherAgentExecutor(AgentExecutor):
    """Test AgentProxy Implementation."""

    def __init__(self):
        self.agent = WeatherAgent()

    async def execute(
        self,
        context: RequestContext,
        event_queue: EventQueue,
    ) -> None:
        result = await self.agent.invoke()
        event_queue.enqueue_event(new_agent_text_message(result))

    async def cancel(self, context: RequestContext, event_queue: EventQueue) -> None:
        raise Exception("cancel not supported")

"""
Create the A2A server and transport bridge to server the Weather Agent.
"""

async def main():
    # create an app-sdk factory to create the transport and bridge
    factory = AgntcyFactory()

    request_handler = DefaultRequestHandler(
        agent_executor=WeatherAgentExecutor(),
        task_store=InMemoryTaskStore(),
    )

    server = A2AStarletteApplication(
        agent_card=agent_card, http_handler=request_handler
    )

    transport = factory.create_transport("SLIM", endpoint="http://localhost:46357")
    bridge = factory.create_bridge(server, transport=transport)
    await bridge.start(blocking=True)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    import asyncio
    asyncio.run(main())
```

Next we will create a simple client agent that queries the weather agent. Create a file named `weather_client.py` and implement the A2A client with a SLIM transport:

```python
from a2a.types import (
    SendMessageRequest,
    MessageSendParams,
    Message,
    Part,
    TextPart,
    Role,
)

from agntcy_app_sdk.factory import AgntcyFactory
from agntcy_app_sdk.factory import ProtocolTypes
from agntcy_app_sdk.protocols.a2a.protocol import A2AProtocol
from weather_agent import agent_card

factory = AgntcyFactory()
transport = factory.create_transport("SLIM", endpoint="http://localhost:46357")

async def main():
    # create an app-sdk factory to create the transport and bridge
    factory = AgntcyFactory()

    a2a_topic = A2AProtocol.create_agent_topic(agent_card)

    # create a client to connect to the A2A server
    client = await factory.create_client(ProtocolTypes.A2A.value, agent_topic=a2a_topic, transport=transport)

    message = "Hello, Weather Agent, how is the weather?"
    request = SendMessageRequest(
        params=MessageSendParams(
            message=Message(
                messageId="0",
                role=Role.user,
                parts=[Part(TextPart(text=message))],
            ),
        )
    )

    # send a message to the agent
    response = await client.send_message(request)
    print(response)

if __name__ == "__main__":
    import asyncio
    asyncio.run(main())
```

A few notes about the code above:

- The weather agent is choosing not to provide a URL in its agent card, instead it will be discovered by a SLIM transport topic.
- Conversely, the client agent uses the `A2AProtocol.create_agent_topic` method to create a topic based on the agent` card, which is used to connect to the weather agent.

### 🏁 Running the Example

First lets run the SLIM transport server, see the agntcy-app-sdk [docker-compose.yaml](https://github.com/agntcy/app-sdk/blob/main/infra/docker/docker-compose.yaml) or SLIM [repo](https://github.com/agntcy/slim/tree/main).

Now we can run the weather agent server:

```bash
uv run python weather_agent.py
```

You should see a log message indicating that the message bridge is running:

```
...
2025-07-08 13:32:40 [agntcy_app_sdk.bridge] [INFO] [loop_forever:57] Message bridge is running. Waiting for messages...
```

Next, we can run the weather client:

```bash
uv run python weather_client.py
```

You should see a print output with the weather report:

```
root=SendMessageSuccessResponse(id='1c24a07e-45af-4800-81bc-cc2fd1b579e1', jsonrpc='2.0', result=Message(contextId=None, kind='message', messageId='e68913c7-312d-4bfe-88f6-4b4179d4b5bd', metadata=None, parts=[Part(root=TextPart(kind='text', metadata=None, text='The weather is sunny with a high of 75°F.'))], referenceTaskIds=None, role=<Role.agent: 'agent'>, taskId=None))
```

🚀 Congratulations! You have successfully created two A2A agents that communicate over a SLIM transport.

For a fully functional multi-agent example integrating A2A, Agntcy, and Langgraph, check out our [coffeeAgntcy](https://github.com/agntcy/coffeeAgntcy).

### Identity TBAC Integration
Activate Agntcy Identity Service TBAC by configuring the `IDENTITY_AUTH_ENABLED` and `IDENTITY_SERVICE_API_KEY` environment variable with the Identity App Service API key.  
For more details, refer to the [official documentation](https://identity-docs.outshift.com/docs/dev#a2a-integration-using-the-python-sdk).

**Important**: Ensure the `IDENTITY_SERVICE_API_KEY` values for the client and server are different to enforce proper TBAC functionality.

### ⚙️ Contributing additional Transports

To contribute a new transport implementation, follow these steps:

1. **Implement the Transport Interface**: Create a new class for your transport in the `src/agntcy_app_sdk/transports` directory. Ensure it inherits from the `BaseTransport` interface and implements all required methods.

2. **Update the Factory**: Modify the `AgntcyFactory` to include your new transport in the `create_transport` method.

3. **Add Tests**: Create unit tests for your transport in the `tests/e2e` directory. Ensure all tests pass.

4. **Documentation**: Update the documentation to include your new transport. This includes any relevant sections in the README and API reference.

5. **Submit a Pull Request**: Once your changes are complete, submit a pull request for review.

See [API Reference](API_REFERENCE.md) for detailed SDK API documentation.
